>> Richard Feldman: So
let's go through the solutions here.
So our first to do is we're
gonna change the annotation for
all articles to be
allArticles : List Article.
That's our goal here.
So for that to be true we need to actually
have a definition of what an article is.
And to do that we're gonna say type
alias Article = And that's it.
So now we have defined what
it is to be an article.
And we've said that allArticles is
a list of those, whatever that may be.
To check our work,
we're just gonna use elm make again.
Not because we're actually gonna
bring it up in the browser,
just because the compiler will
tell us if we made a mistake.
We can confirm this by changing
title to int and then recompiling.
And then it's like, no, no, no, no, no.
That's not what this is, and
I'm going to actually highlight
the offending problem in here.
Title, which I claimed was
an int is in fact a string.
Hint: Want to convert
a String into an Int?
Use the String.toInt function!
That is a nice hint,
although this case the problem is actually
just that I messed up the annotation.
All right, place this comment,
with a type annotation for initialModel.
This one is probably
the easiest one of the bunch.
initialModel is a model,
sure enough, okay?
Next one, replace this with
the type annotation for update.
We saw what that one was on the slides,
no surprises here.
Update takes a message and
a model, and returns a model.
Confirm that that works,
yep, it's still good.
Okay.
This one we wanna replace
the type annotation for view.
We also saw this one in the slides.
Takes the model, returns HTML message.
We do have our message type defined up
here just like we did on the slides,
description and data.
Okay, here we're going to replace this
one with another type annotation.
But this one, view article,
doesn't quite take the same argument
as our other view function did.
So our main primary view function
which ends up calling this one,
takes a model and returns HTML message,
this one does not, though.
This one's a little bit different,
this just takes a single article.
Let's confirm that.
But if I try to claim that it takes
a whole model, it's like, no, no,
no, no, no.
That's a type mismatch, this really does
just take an article, not an entire model.
This is pretty normal.
Usually, when you're splitting up your
view into multiple smaller functions that
help it out or helper functions
as we often refer to them.
Usually, they tend to have narrower types
than the functions that are calling them.
You only tend to see a whole lot
of view article, taking a model,
which calls another function that takes
a model, it's usually getting more and
more specific as you
break these things up.
Ok, view banner is interesting because
it's actually not a function and
we called it view because essentially
it's job is to describe some stuff.
That goes into view.
But, really it's just static HTML.
It never changes there's nothing that it's
based on so it's just not a function.
It's just a plain old chunk-a-static HTML,
which is totally fine,
we can have that too.
Confirm that everything still compiles and
it did.
Okay, then we have a view tag
which takes two arguments,
selected tag name and tag name.
So both of those are strings.
And here we can see something that is
sorta a red flag often in Elm programs.
It's not necessarily a problem
that you have to fix.
It's not something that
you have to change.
But whenever I see two arguments
in a row of the same type,
I know that I can mix those up and
the compiler can't help me.
If I were to pass the selectedTagName
second accidentally and the tagName first,
that would still compile
because they both are strings.
The function will accept
them in either order,
but it won't necessarily do what I want.
There's a couple of different
techniques to fix this.
One is you can change it to be like this.
You can sort of fake named arguments and
say this now takes a record which
has two string fields in it.
And then I can essentially
say in here config, and
then I can say config.selectedtagname or
config.tagname.
Another thing I can do that's pretty
conducive to this pattern is you
can actually do what's called
record field de-structuring.
Which you can do inline anywhere.
Basically, it works like this.
And that is shorthand for saying, I don't
actually wanna name the argument itself.
I just wanna pull these fields
off of it and name those.
So essentially,
this is saying I want to take a record.
I want to extract its selected tag
name field and put that in scope.
I'm gonna extract its tag name field and
put that in scope.
Then effectively, we've ended up
with the same thing as what we've
had before except that now they are named
by virtue of coming in as a record.
Either way of doing this is totally fine.
It's just a difference in
how it's gonna get called,
what the arguments are gonna be.
One thing to note, though,
is that if you do this,
you've now sacrificed partial application.
We can no longer partially apply these
one at a time, like we could before,
which depending on how we use it,
may or may not be more or less useful.
And that's the last of our to-dos, which
means we're all good with the exercise.
Any questions, yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Some of the little parts
of the views, there's no onclick or
anything, but
you still have the message for the HTML.
>> Richard Feldman: Yes.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Richard Feldman: That's true,
so, a good observation.
So, the type parameter in HTML is based
on the events that it's handling.
So if we don't have any onclick handlers,
for example,
the banner is totally non-interactive.
It doesn't actually produce any events.
How do we determine what
this value ought to be.
Short answer is that it has to agree with
view if it's going to be used in view.
Which is to say that this type has to be
at least, if not literally HTML message,
then it has to be something
compatible with HTML message.
We haven't really gotten to the notion
of things that are compatible but
not the same when it comes to types yet.
We'll talk about those at the very end of
the workshop the advanced workshop gets
into that topic in much more detail.
But for right now, I think it's enough
to know that when you're getting
started just make sure
that they all agree and
this is a pretty decent way
to get them all to agree.
Really, that comes up more when you're
sort of trying to reuse things across
applications like if you have a package,
you don't necessarily wanna
have the same message type for.
You wanna be more flexible so that you
can re-use something across projects.
That's when this comes
up a little bit more and
there are some other circumstances.
But true answer is,
we're just getting started.
Pretty much you can get away
with just using HTML message for
just about everything and
you'll be all set.
Good question.
Follow up?
>> Speaker 2: Yeah, the other thing that
maybe we're not touching on right now,
if you go all the way to the bottom,
just the parens there-
>> Richard Feldman: Yes, sure, yeah,
that type is called unit.
It's basically a really boring type
that only has one value which is also
called unit.
And it basically means like
there's nothing going on there.
So program has three type parameters.
One is for the model.
One is for the message.
And this other one in the middle here is
used in the event that we're doing some
JavaScript interop,
which we're not doing.
So there's there's
nothing that goes there.
So, when you see that open paren
close paren, it means, hey,
there's nothing of interest here,
don't worry about it.
And we'd see something more
interesting there if we actually were
doing JavaScript interop,
which we are not, yet.
That's the last section.